V2-3577 How to release a new opt-in block version (#44)
volusion/element-documentation: how-to/release-an-opt-in-new-block-version/README.md

## Prerequisites

This guide assumes that you already have a published block that you are modifying. If you don't have a published block yet, check out the [tutorial for building an element page](/tutorials/building-an-element-page/README.md), which covers creating and publishing blocks.

## 1. Create a New Major Version of Your Block

For opt-in or breaking changes, you'll want a new version branch to do your work in. Go to your terminal and navigate to your block's home directory, then type this command to create a new major version for your block:

```shell
element publish -m
```

## 2. Make Your Block Changes

Make the code changes for your block.

## 3. Verify Your Changes in Staging

Once you have made the changes in your block, you should release them to staging so that you can verify the block works as intended. To do that, go to your terminal and navigate to your block's home directory. Then type these commands:

```shell
npm run build
element update
```

> Your changes will now be available for you (and anyone in your development org) to see. Manually test them in a theme and verify that they are ready to release to your block users. If your changes are not ready yet, re-run `npm run build` and `element update` again every time that you alter the block code, and test again.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your changes will now be available for you (and anyone in your development org) to see via the *Preview* link in Site Designer. Manually test them in a theme and verify that they are ready to release to your block users. If your changes are not ready yet, re-run `npm run build` and `element update` again every time that you alter the block code, and test again.
```

## 4. Release Your New Version

When your changes are ready, you can release them by publishing a release. New major releases will instantly be available for your block users to manually upgrade, but they must take manual action to do so. In your terminal, run this command:

```shell
element release -n "Release note"
```

It's also a good time to tag the release with a commit. To do so, run this command in your terminal:

```shell
git commit -am "Released a new major version"
```

> Your new major block version will be available to install or upgrade.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your new major block version will be available to upgrade in Site Designer on a per-block basis. Any time the block is added to a theme from now on, it will automatically use the latest version.
```

Reviewer: @dan-grayson Should we add screenshots for how to change release versions in Site Designer?

Author: @chris-decker-volusion I think the how-to's are supposed to avoid screenshots (easier to maintain as the UI changes), but I could see some benefit to adding some text describing how to do that.

# How to Release an Opt-In New Version of Your Block

> In this how-to guide, you'll learn how to release a new opt-in (major) version of your block that your block users will need to manually upgrade to. This is often necessary when you are introducing **breaking changes** to your block, such as changes to the block appearance, or changes to the block's config schema. You can also [release non-breaking block changes that automatically propagate to all your block users](/how-to/release-a-non-breaking-block-change/README.md).

Reviewer 2: aren't they called "major versions", and opt-in is just a reminder? If so would this be better as "release a new major (opt-in) version of your block"?

Reviewer 2: Why does this link not work here or on the homepage?

## Prerequisites

This guide assumes that you already have a published block that you are modifying. If you don't have a published block yet, check out the [tutorial for building an element page](/tutorials/building-an-element-page/README.md), which covers creating and publishing blocks.

## 1. Create a New Major Version of Your Block

For opt-in or breaking changes, you'll want a new version branch to do your work in. Go to your terminal and navigate to your block's home directory, then type this command to create a new major version for your block:

```shell
element publish -m
```

## 2. Make Your Block Changes

Make the code changes for your block.

## 3. Verify Your Changes in Staging

> Once you have made the changes in your block, you should release them to staging so that you can verify the block works as intended. To do that, go to your terminal and navigate to your block's home directory. Then type these commands:

Reviewer 2: "To do that, go to your terminal and navigate to your block's home directory." I think we're already there from step 1, this might be redundant and possibly confusing.

Author: going with "To do that, return to your terminal and the block's home directory" just to remind them to put commands in the terminal and clarify what dir

```shell
npm run build
element update
```

Your changes will now be available for you (and anyone in your development org) to see in Site Designer and via the Site Designer *Preview* link. Manually test them in a theme and verify that they are ready to release to your block users. If your changes are not ready yet, re-run `npm run build` and `element update` again every time that you alter the block code, and test again.

## 4. Release Your New Version

> When your changes are ready, you can release them by publishing a release. New major releases will instantly be available for your block users to manually upgrade, but they must take manual action to do so. In your terminal, run this command:

Reviewer 2: "you can release them by publishing a release"
reads a bit like defining a word using that word. Maybe something more like "you can make them available in Site Designer by publishing a release"?
